

## FCC

**Inferring 1-Minimal Trigger Configurations for Reproducing Linux Kernel CVEs**

## Overview

This repo offers FCC, an LLM-powered framework that links vulnerability cues to build-system symbols to mine candidates, completes implicit prerequisites under olddefconfig feedback to avoid silent rollback, and performs runtime-validated mini mization guided by the inferred dependency topology. 

## Setup

Create a virtual environment and install the libraries:

```
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Repository Structure

* `/src` : This is an FCC source code folder, which stores the core code for implementing FCC.

- `/data`: This is a data storage folder containing the minimal configuration item sets for 88 CVEs in total from the KernJC and KernelCTF datasets, along with other data files (e.g., identified configuration sets generated by the KernJC method and our method).

### /src

* #### stage I

  - `Candidate_Identification.py`: The main file for the **Candidate_Identification** phase of FCC.
  - `shell_exec.py`: Executes shell commands.

  **Important Note**: Some preprocessing may be required before running these scripts. You need to manually configure the files and settings required for the execution of the `Candidate_Identification` file, such as setting variables like `API_KEY`, `BASE_URL`, and `model`, as well as specifying the CVEs corresponding to the kernel vulnerabilities to be identified and the relevant Makefile files.

* #### stage II

  - `Dependency_Completion.py`: The main file for the **Dependency_Completion** phase of FCC. It writes configuration items for CVEs in the dataset by calling `dependency_completer_with_graph.py` and `dependency_finder.py`, and implements Dependency_Completion for disabled configuration items.
  - `dependency_completer_with_graph.py`: Completes disabled configuration items. For each disabled configuration item, it retrieves the dependent configuration items obtained by calling `dependency_finder.py`.
  - `dependency_finder.py`: For a given configuration item, it extracts relevant snippets from Kconfig and Makefile files, then calls `prompt_GPT.py` to inquire and identify the dependent configuration items.
  - `prompt_GPT.py`: Implements the functionality of calling the large language model (LLM) API.
  - `shell_exec.py`: Executes arbitrary shell commands.

  **Important Note**: To execute the **Dependency_Completion** step, some preprocessing is required. Specifically, you need to properly configure the file to be read by `Dependency_Completion.py`, which should contain CVEs, Linux kernel versions, and the configuration item sets obtained from Step 1.


* #### stage III

  - `Config_Minimization.py`: The main file for the **Config_Minimization** phase of FCC.

  - `shell_exec.py`: Executes shell commands. If the execution time exceeds the time limit, it will terminate the execution and return the output information generated during this period.


## /data

* `ALL_DATASET_Configs_FULL.xlsx`: Contains the versions and configuration items obtained via the KernJC method for the CVEs included in the KernJC and KernCTF datasets.
* `KernJC_Configs_FULL.xlsx`: Contains the versions and configuration items obtained via the KernJC method for the CVEs included in the KernJC dataset.
* `CVE_IDENTIFY_CONFIG-KernelCTFdata.xlsx`: The set of configuration items identified for the KernelCTF dataset during the **Candidate_Identification** phase of FCC.
* `CVE_IDENTIFY_CONFIG-KJCdata.xlsx`: The set of configuration items identified for the KernJC dataset during the **Candidate_Identification** phase of FCC.
* `CVE_IDENTIFY-KernelCTFdata.xlsx`: Records of CVE information, CWE information, summaries of semantic clues, and summaries of evidence-side clues for the KernelCTF dataset during the **Candidate_Identification** phase of FCC.
* `CVE_IDENTIFY-KJCdata.xlsx`: Records of CVE information, CWE information, summaries of semantic clues, and summaries of evidence-side clues for the KernJC dataset during the **Candidate_Identification** phase of FCC.
* `KernelCTFdata_Configs_mini.xlsx`: The minimal set of configurations obtained by reproducing vulnerabilities for the CVEs included in the KernelCTF dataset.
* `KernJCdata_Configs_mini.xlsx`: The minimal set of configurations obtained by reproducing vulnerabilities for the CVEs included in the KernJC dataset.
* Other files are statistical files that provide statistics on the configuration item sets contained in the above data files.
